[SOUMA] There are six elements:
fire, water, earth, wind,
light, and darkness,
which make up the
magic of this world.
Fire, water, earth, and wind.
Each of these elements
have their own specific
magic attacks.
While light is basically
used for healing.
Darkness alone is unique.
It isn't specifically magic
that manipulates the dark.
Any specialized magic
that doesn't fall under
the previous five elements
is included under
this umbrella term.
After observing Liscia and
Aisha during their training,
I noticed something one
can impart whatever magic
they possess into their
weapons and attacks.
Additionally, there are
a few who can create
more powerful magic
phenomena known as mages.
When a mage is assigned
to the armed forces,
the branch they are sent to
depends on their element.
Fire goes to the army, wind
elementals go to the air force,
and water to the navy.
As for earth, they end up
in the Forbidden Army,
which reports to the king.
Moreover, light elementals,
which serve as medics,
are assigned equally
to each branch.
Luckily for us, the
earth‐elemental mages
are under my command.
Currently, I have the majority
of the Forbidden Army
employed in some civil
engineering projects.
Incidentally, my "Living
Poltergeists" are treated
as part of the
"other" category.
In other words, they fall under
the title of dark magic.
Time to take it outside
the castle and use it
for a little adventure.
So, uh...
You're an adventurer
who's joining our party
for the time being, that right?
Hey, do you think
that could actually be...
The famed explorer
in a mascot costume
that we've heard rumors about.
Despite his appearance,
apparently,
he has considerable skill.
Are you sure this guy's
gonna have our backs
when we need him?
Well, today's adventure
is to explore the tunnels
beneath the capital, which is
just a beginner‐level quest.
I don't see the harm!
He seems charming enough.
Ugh. Like that'll
help in a fight.
[DECE coughs]
In any event, I look forward
to working with you.
[SNAKE roars]
[BAT shrieks]
He's a lot more agile
than he looks.
I told you there was
nothing to worry about.
Can't believe we were
assigned such an easy task.
All we have to do is walk
the tunnels beneath Parnam
looking for blocked
passageways, and, of course,
find out what wildlife
calls this place home.
Stay alert since we don't
know what we'll find next.
Everybody, stop!
‐‐What is it?
‐‐[YUNO] Something's ahead.
[growling]
And it's huge, whatever it is!
‐‐Is that a salamander?
‐‐No way!
I've never seen one
reach that size before!
[FEBRAL] Stay back! Salamander
fluids are highly acidic.
Close‐combat is
extremely dangerous!
Fine. Then we'll just have
to rely on my magic!
Not if they're fire‐based
attacks, though.
Salamanders are immune to those.
One choice. Ready?
Everyone, retreat!
[yelling]
[yelling continues]
[DECE]
Ow!
You've gotta run faster! Its
spit does serious damage!
Don't let it splash on you!
Like I want it to!
[DECE]
Master Mascot!
Cover your eyes, quick!
Why aren't you getting up?
[FEBRAL sighs]
We... We should
be safe out here.
Wasn't this quest supposed
to be a breeze?
That was too close.
We made it out just barely,
but is Master Mascot all right?
It looked like he took
some major damage
from that salivating salamander.
Honestly, of all the times
you could've tripped.
I don't even want to imagine
what would've happened
if I didn't come to your rescue.
[squeak]
Huh?
There's no reason for you to go
and beat yourself up over it.
You're welcome.
Still I did get saved by you, so
I suppose that means we're even.
[trill]
Uh, excuse me?
Are you saying that you're glad
it was you that got burned
by the acid instead of me?
Ugh! Well, you shouldn't be.
I'm an adventurer, after all.
When it comes to picking up
scars, I'm no stranger.
It's almost like she's
discovered a way of carrying on
a conversation with him.
Even though Master Mascot
didn't say a single word,
how's it possible for Yuno to
know what he's thinking?
[JULIA]
Hmm...
I have a theory.
Could it be the power of love?
No way.
[SOUMA sighs]
It's a good thing I added acid
resistance to him, just in case.
[LISCIA] Souma! What are
you up to in here?
Um...
Your friend's gotten a lot
bigger from the last time
I saw him.
I commissioned a craftsman in
town to make a larger version.
You've been moving him around
with your Poltergeist magic?
Of course.
Don't tell me the mysterious
"mascot adventurer"
everyone's been
buzzing about is‐‐
Yeah.
One and the same is my guess.
You had him join an
adventurer party and explore
the underground passages?
But why would you
go and do that?
Huh? There was something
I was mulling over,
and I wanted to actually
see what the tunnels
beneath the capital looked like.
I can't even begin to imagine
what you've got planned there.
Did you turn up anything good?
[SOUMA]
A thing or two.
Also, the adventure
was pretty fun.
I couldn't be more proud
of these faces.
Eyes sunken,
showing no signs of life.
Your gaunt faces look like
the spirits of the dead
haunting their own graves.
For several days now, you have
eschewed your bedrooms
to work battled with numbers
from morning till night,
and ignoring your families'
pleas to stop coming
to the castle.
To put it simply, you are this
kingdom's true treasure!
Take pride!
For all of the mental strain
you've endured was for the sake
of saving Elfrieden and
guaranteeing its future!
It's thanks to all of
your work just now
we've secured the capital
desperately needed.
Which will allow us to
earnestly move forward
with the much anticipated
Project Venetinova.
[CLERKS gasp]
[LISCIA]
Venetinova?
[SOUMA] Yeah, that's
the name of a new city
we're going to put here.
Since it's on the coast, does
that mean that you're building
‐‐a port?
‐‐Just wait.
I'm planning on
making it the largest bay city
in all of Elfrieden.
But Lagoon City in the Walter
Duchy already serves
as our main seaport,
so why do we need another?
Souma! You don't mean‐‐!
Uh‐‐ It's nothing like that!
I'm not trying to start a
conflict with Duchess Walter,
really!
Then what exactly is your
reasoning for needing
to build a second port?
While we construct
our new city here,
we'll start building
roads outward.
If we maintain a transportation
network from the port
to other cities, we can
control both maritime
and overland shipping,
making the distribution
of goods much smoother.
Once the project
reaches completion,
Venetinova will end up becoming
the heart of this nation.
And the roads branching
off will be blood vessels.
That's the plan.
The kingdom's heart and vessels?
I mean, is smoothing out
the distribution of goods
really that big of a deal?
Yeah, I'm underselling it!
[LISCIA]
Uh...
[SOUMA] Liscia, do you know
how prices are determined?
Items people want
are expensive or cheap,
depending on the
number available.
At the very least,
I know that much.
Right. The price of goods
are determined in relation
to supply and demand.
If there's an absolute
shortage of something,
that's out of our hands, but if
distribution is done smoothly,
whatever material we
experience a shortage in
can be brought over from
someplace where there's
a surplus.
Once the commodity
excess and deficiencies
are resolved and a balance
between supply and demand
is achieved, inflated costs
will gradually decline.
So, all throughout the kingdom,
prices will begin leveling out.
Naturally, I think lower
prices are a good thing,
but how do we make them go down?
Tell me, Liscia, what do
you think is the most
in‐demand item in the country?
The thing that people are
seeking more than anything
right now?
Uh...
Oh, right, food!
Yeah, exactly.
There's a fundamental reason
for the food shortage.
That's because our domestic
production of food crops
is at an all‐time low,
and as a result,
supply shortages are driving
prices up, spurring things on.
No matter how much food costs,
you can't afford to stop eating.
When prices go up, it puts a
squeeze on household budgets,
leaving less money to
spend on other things.
And that's the reason this
nation's economy is stagnant.
While converting our staple crop
away from cotton is proceeding,
we'll have to wait to
produce actual results.
But as of now,
out of all the options,
this is the most effective
measure we can take to control
skyrocketing food prices.
It's imperative we secure
the necessary funds,
no matter what it costs
to make that happen.
Once this project
is at completion,
our revolutionary reforms
will take a huge leap forward.
But we wouldn't have
reached this point
without you cutting
out wasteful spending
and finding the capital
to build the harbor.
On behalf of the people,
I thank you!
And yes, it's true your names
may not go down in history.
But!
Together, you have made
a monumental contribution
to history.
More than any hero
on the battlefield!
And believe me, I, Souma Kazuya,
will remember that all my life.
[CLERKS gasp]
Men! Truly!
You are the nameless heroes!
[CLERKS gasp]
[SOUMA] All of you have
done an exceptional job!
You deserve a special reward,
so starting tomorrow,
you'll have five days off!
[CLERKS cheer]
Ordinarily, I would at least
present you medals
for your hard work, but dipping
into the funds you spent
countless hours securing would
defeat the entire purpose!
And for that, I feel
deeply ashamed.
So, in lieu of a medal,
instead each take one bottle of
wine from the castle's cellar.
Toast yourselves, sell it for
cash, or whatever you please!
[CLERKS cheer]
What was all that?
I understand that this is
a huge accomplishment,
but weren't you a little
too worked up?
[SOUMA]
When operating on zero sleep,
I do have a tendency of acting
slightly over‐dramatic.
[LISCIA] Speaking of which, why
not give your mind a break?
I mean, with your Living
Poltergeists' ability,
you can let your consciousness
rest in shifts, right?
I suppose.
But then again,
we were right on the cusp
of securing the budget necessary
to begin construction
and time was of the essence.
So I kinda needed each
consciousness running
at full strength.
I realize this is important
for the kingdom,
but don't make me worry.
There's no one else who
can take your place.
[SOUMA laughs]
If something happens,
you could always summon
a replacement hero, can't you?
For now, I need to
get a little sleep.
Afterwards, let's go inspect
the planned construction site
for Venetinova.
[yawns]
Ludwin's there now.
He and his men should
already be starting their work.
I need to go check on that.
I'll prepare a coach.
In the meantime...
[SOUMA snoring]
He's already passed out.
Must have been more
tired than he thought.
It is true.
We could always try
and summon another hero
if we really needed to,
but they would be
someone different.
And I want you, Souma Kazuya.
[SOUMA grunts]
This is closer to Parnam
than I was expecting.
The trip was so short,
I'm not even hungry.
It's located near the
center of the kingdom,
and geographically, it's an
ideal place to build a port.
Kind of makes you
wonder why a location
this well‐suited went
unused for so long.
[LUDWIN]
Your Majesty!
Thank you for making
the trip out here!
Good to see you, Princess.
I welcome you to the future
site of Venetinova.
[AISHA]
Ahem.
Ah, and thank you
for safely escorting
His Majesty here, Aisha.
Let's get right into it, Ludwin,
and hear an update on how
construction is progressing.
[LUDWIN] We've already finished
marking off the territory.
As for construction,
it was on schedule.
What happened?
You ran into trouble?
Yes, well...
Let's not discuss here. I'll
explain the details inside.
There are people who are
opposed to the construction?
Yes, sire. They live in
a small village located
a little farther inland
from this point.
They're led by an older
gentleman named Urup,
and insist we mustn't
build a town on this land.
Did they say why they
were so against it?
Brace yourself.
Apparently this is
the Kaijin's domain,
and if we erect buildings,
we'll incur its wrath.
The Kaijin?
That's what their
sea god is called,
according to the
village elder, anyway.
Kaijin, the destructive
god of the ocean.
So this world has sea gods, too?
But do they actually exist
or are they a myth?
There certainly are people
who think there's something
monstrous living deep
in the ocean,
but if you ask me, I'm
doubtful this Kaijin exists.
I've never seen it myself,
either, sadly.
More than likely, it's just
some sort of local superstition.
Whenever houses are built
on the sea god's sacred land,
an enormous monster appears,
emerging from the ocean and
swallows the buildings up whole.
A giant beast that
comes out of the ocean
and swallows all the houses up.
Ludwin, I need to hear
what this old man has to say
in person!
Tell me where I can find him!
Th‐The village he lives
in is relatively close by.
If you'd like, I could
take you there now.
[knocking]
I had a feeling
I'd see you again.
How many times do I need
to tell you about the Kaijin?
Building a town down
there is a deathtrap.
Forgive me, old‐timer,
but regarding this Kaijin,
would you mind telling me
a little bit more, please?
And who might you be?
Oh, I'm just the acting King of
Elfrieden, Souma Kazuya.
Huh?
Your Majesty!
Please continue, Urup.
Tell me more about this sea god.
It's not my place to make
demands of his Majesty,
but I beg you to reconsider.
No matter what's happened,
this land has always belonged
to the Kaijin.
Whenever us land‐dwellers
dared to build houses
on its territory,
we would awaken
the sea god's anger,
and he destroyed our hard work!
[crying]
This village, the next one over,
and the one after that
have suffered generations
under the Kaijin!
No one dares live in
its domain anymore!
[URUP crying]
[SOUMA] Urup, since you're an
expert on the Kaijin's sacred
land and where it reaches,
would you mind pointing
it out to for me?
[HAKUYA] So, this is the
sea god's sacred land?
Don't tell me Your Majesty
believes this legend
about the Kaijin
destroying towns?
No, it's nothing but a legend.
However, since the folklore
has been passed down
for generations, I believe
there's a moral to the legend
their ancestors
wished to convey.
A warning.
So, in reality, the sea god's
wrath is a metaphor.
Yeah, and the story
has one crucial lesson:
"Don't build houses
in this specific place."
You ignore the warning, an
unbelievably large monster
will emerge from the
ocean and swallow up
the structures you've built.
I suspect that this sea god's
wrath is really a tsunami.
[LUDWIN]
But sire, as long as I've lived,
I've never heard any
tales about that area
being struck by a tsunami.
Most likely because the
intervals between storms
are so huge.
A hundred, 200 years.
Maybe longer, and we're
talking about a millennia.
A thousand years?
[SOUMA] Before returning to
the castle, I visited the other
villages surrounding the
construction site and asked them
about the folklore passed down.
I received a rough estimate
as how much area
the tsunami would cover.
[HAKUYA] Which is represented
by the slashed‐out portion
on this map, right?
[LUDWIN] It completely overlaps
the proposed construction site
for Venetinova.
Yeah, and almost
impressively so.
[HAKUYA]
Then, Your Majesty,
knowing this, do we
cancel building the city?
The project will continue
moving forward.
Except we're changing
the construction site.
Change the site?
But this far in?
While this V‐shaped topography
is suited to being a harbor,
there's just one major problem:
Should a tsunami occur, people
are at risk of being harmed.
I'm thinking of moving the
planned construction site
to this side.
There? That area did actually
come up as a possible
replacement site for Venetinova.
But sire, you're talking about
planning for a tsunami
that may not even come
for a thousand years.
Aren't you being
overly cautious?
If there's a one‐in‐a‐millennium
chance it'll strike,
who says it couldn't be
during our lifetimes?
As long as there's
a remote chance,
I'd like to make
Venetinova a city
that can withstand disaster.
Wise decision,
in line with your motto:
"to provide is to prevent."
When I consulted the elders
about what preceded
the sea god's wrath,
every one of them mentioned
how the ground would suddenly
begin violently shaking.
Meaning earthquakes?
[SOUMA]
Precisely.
When a large undersea
quake happens,
the fault movement causes the
sea floor to rise up quickly
and then sink down, resulting
in the sea's surface‐‐
Well, never mind
the reasons why.
What's important is that if
the ground starts shaking,
even just a little bit, there's
a risk a tsunami's on its way.
Very well.
To be safe, let's factor in a
storm hitting the shoreline.
Knowing that's a possibility,
how does that event
alter our current plans?
Short version, people
need to flee the coast
as fast as possible if
an earthquake occurs.
Ideally, they need to seek
shelter on higher ground.
It is imperative we spread
this information,
especially to the people
residing near the coastline.
As you wish, sire.
May I also propose we consider
appropriate locations
for the citizenry to retreat to,
and prepare routes there
in the event of an earthquake?
[SOUMA]
Please do.
Now, as far as changes are
concerned to the construction,
first of all, we need
to create a bank here
and elevate our proposed site.
It shall be done, but that
is going to require
some time to finish.
I'll have the earth mages
in the Forbidden Army
make it a priority.
May affect the construction
schedules elsewhere,
but still, can't be helped.
Here's a possibility
to consider.
What if we placed the
residential and commercial
districts further inland?
[HAKUYA] Best to do the
same for any consulates,
and other important facilities.
[SOUMA] It begs the question,
what do we do around
the port facilities?
I've never met anyone
as fired up about building
a port as His Majesty.
We both know how he worked
like crazy securing the budget
to get this project
off the ground.
Naturally, he would
be passionate.
It's admirable just
how much His Majesty
really does care
about the kingdom.
Yes, Aisha. He really does.
May I ask you a question?
[AISHA]
What is it?
Do you have feelings for
Souma, as in like him?
You bet! I have immense
respect for him!
That's how you feel?
Then let's support him
in every way we can,
so he can stay happy.
Oh, you better believe I will!